# 17-Eco-warriors
IoT smart water sensor to track the flow and solve problems in regions of Gujarat by using gis systems
Rajkot is the fourth largest city in the state of Gujarat.The city is located in an arid zone with erratic rainfalls. The high growth rate, climate and the spatial location of the city makes water supply as one of the major challenging issues for the city. The city is able to provide only 106 lpcd with intermittent supply for an average of 20 mins per day. Analysis reveals that local water resources provide approximately one third of the current water demand of the city. Groundwater in Rajkot is not considered to be sustainable water source due to the lower water table and associated risks of fluoride and nitrate. To meet the demand, city has ventured far and wide to access reliable water sources thereby increasing the overall energy requirement. Most of the water for city comes from the Narmada Canal which is hundreds of kilometres away through the Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP). It is estimated that every litre of water requires 6 Watt of energy to make it to Rajkot which is highly unsustainable. Inequitable and intermittent water supply has led to unrest in the city in past. As far as waste water is considered, 40% of the city is disconnected to centralized sewage infrastructure. In such cases, untreated sewage is discharged into the Aji River, thereby posing threat to public health and environment. The major challenge for city is to manage its increasing water demand and tackling its water losses through leakage and non-revenue water. With the above scenario, it was discussed and decided by Regional GIZ Urban Nexus project to provide advisory services to the city thereby supporting them to improve their service delivery. A detailed study on water demand management for the city of Rajkot was conducted under the project. A water balance tool for the city was developed which helped the city to take control of its water losses by understanding the performance of a service area with the objective of improving decision.The city had witnessed serious water supply problems in previous years. Inequity in water distribution has ledto unrest and a strong dependency on water tankers with their poor water quality and high cost.Also, wastewater generated in city is not efficiently treated to be reused.
